---
UUID:      ›[[202202211002]] 
cdate:     02-21-2022 10:04 AM
tags:      #JAMM328 #essay #marked2 
zettel:    JAMM328 Profile Body
---
# Body

Hudak grew up in rural Minnesota near Grand Rapids. From a young age, he has loved to explore his surroundings and discovered his interest in the world's ecological wonderlands. He was interested in ecology before he even knew what the word meant. 

"I got attached to being in the woods, raising ducks and chickens and geese," said Hudak. 

Steeped in a culture where his dad avidly hunted and fished had a lot to do with how he grew up and eventually evolved into a Research Forester.

"Ideas and things I could observe just being out in the woods is all part of ecology so I got interested in that," Hudak said. 

His formal education started at Itasca Community College in Grand Rapids, Minnesota. Hudak later transferred to the University of Minnesota at St. Paul, where he graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior.

During his last year at the University of Minnesota, his application to graduate school at the University of Colorado and his application to join the Peace Corps came through at the same time. Now he needed to decide between continuing schooling or traveling the world. 

Hudak decided to join the Peace Corps and taught secondary science in Malawi, Africa. They needed someone with a science degree. "I was curious about teaching and teaching is one thing you can do with a science degree," said Hudak. 

While in Africa, he became interested in the issues around local deforestation. Africa has been struggling in a fight against deforestation, and Hudak questioned what he could do to study this problem and find a way to contribute to a solution.  



 
